---
title: "AI Tracks you using WIFI"
date: 2023-01-24T14:32:05+10:30
draft: false
description: "AI uses WIFI signals to track body positions"
tags: ["AI"]
thumbnail: "AITracksyouusingWIFI\thumb.jpg"

---

<span style="color:#00FFFF">We now have the technology, to track where you are in your own home, using WIFI signals.</span>


The researchers at Carnegie Mellon University have developed technology to detect three-dimensional shapes and movements of human bodies utilizing WIFI routers.

So now your smart phone has your GPS location, your smart fridge knows when you get your ice cubes at night, your robot vacuum has schematics of your house and your WIFI router now has the capability to graph where you are in your own home.

This technology has its use cases but can also be used by nefarious actors. 


# Malicious use cases


Your network gets compromised, now not only does the adversary have access to you internal network. But they can track your movements using your wonderful enterprise grade Wi-Fi solution you have install throughout all your offices.

Or technology companies using this extra data point to find a way advertisers would benefit from it.


# Good use cases


This tech could be used in the health industy to track patients when health staff are not avaliable.

Or when patients are at home unsupervised. Deadman alerts could be set up if movement is not detected within a certain threshold, to trigger an alert for a welfare check.

Security systems could benefit from the added data points, such as already avaiable PIR (Passive Infrared) sensors.


# How it works


Body tracking technology already exists with LiDAR and radars, but those sensors cost thousands of dollars.

It works by using Channel State Information from WIFI Routers.  These are complex decimal sequences which don’t have spatial coordinates.

The raw CSI signals are cleaned by amplitude and phase sanitation. 

Then a neural network performs a translation to 2D feature maps that resemble images.

These are given to a modified DensePose-RCNN architecture, Developed by Facebook and London researches, to estimate a UV map. 

As you can see in this video, a 3D representation of the person is generated by the AI. (Show video of AI in action)